Now that you've seen how to build an autoencoder out of linear layers,
let's improve on this model using convolutional layers.
Convolutional layers give us a way to preserve spatial information.
So, generally, they're part of
a better and more elegant solution for encoding and decoding images.
The encoder portion of an autoencoder is
something that you've seen before in our lesson on CNN's.
It's typically made of a series of
convolutional and maxpooling layers that
downsample the spatial dimensions of an input image.
So, you know roughly how to get from
an input image to a compressed representation already.
The decoder is something we haven't really seen before.
How can we go from a compressed representation to a reconstructed image?
In this simple code example,
you've seen that you can just define a linear layer to
transform any number of inputs into your desired output size,
and so you could easily reverse the encoder steps.
Here, with an input image instead of a vector,
there are a couple of approaches you might take,
but the end goal is the same.
You want to reverse the downsampling process that happened in the encoder.
You want to increase the spatial dimensions of a compressed input to
produce a reconstructed image that has the same shape as the original input.
So, instead of down sampling using maxpooling,
you can imagine trying to upsample an image by un-pooling the pixel values in an input.
You could use an interpolation technique like
nearest neighbors or another kind of linear interpolation.
Nearest neighbors expands a given area by copying
over a single pixel value from an input image to,
say, a two-by-two two in the larger output image.
If you've ever tried to enlarge
a low resolution image this upsampling is usually what happens.
But interpolation is a fairly crude way to upsample an image.
In the case of nearest neighbors,
we're just copying over existing values.
But a realistic larger image is likely to have more variety in pixel values,
and so there may be a better way to upsample its image.
So, you could also try to learn how to best upsample an image.
If we want our network to learn how to upsample,
we can use a transpose convolutional layer.
This layer does not use a predefined interpolation method,
instead it has learnable parameters.
You'll sometimes hear these referred to as
deconvolutional layers but it's not strictly undoing a convolution step.
I find it most helpful to think of transpose convolution as a way
to upsample existing input values using filter weights,
in a way that's similar to traditional convolution.
Before we use this in code,
let's get into the math behind a transpose convolutional layer.